Dear students,

 

Inevitably, one of the biggest adjustments universities around the world will have to make as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic is how they teach and assess their students.

 

I have referred before to the changes to our own teaching methods as we move to online teaching. Later today we will be publishing details of our plans for the University’s assessment methods in Easter term and beyond.

 

All students will receive an email from our Senior Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education explaining the University’s principles and policies for next term’s assessment. Further details will subsequently be circulated by individual Faculties and Department heads. This information will soon be available online on the student FAQ section of our Coronavirus information page.

 

The proposed methods of assessment have been developed in consultation with colleagues across the University. They have been thoroughly discussed and agreed with student representatives. We have sought to take into account the range of views expressed by many students. I am grateful to all those who have contributed to this radical rethink of our processes in such a short period of time.

 

Throughout, we have tried to ensure that the methods of assessment we adopt are rigorous and fair, while taking into account the health and wellbeing of our students and staff. Extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures, and we are truly without precedents on which to rely. And, as we have learned, situations can change very quickly. We may have to further adapt our approach to respond to events as they unfold. If we do, we will communicate this openly and promptly.

 

My colleagues and I acknowledge that students and staff in different circumstances will be affected in very different ways over the next few months. Whatever those circumstances are, it will always be our priority to offer as much support as we can.

 

Postgraduate research students

 

Understandably, concern has been expressed by postgraduate research students – particularly those in the final stages of their work – about the uncertainty of their position. Although some information is available in the student FAQ section of our webpage, I recognise that this does not answer all the questions that have been emerging. The University is in frequent conversations with the various bodies that fund postgraduate research students, and we are trying to find the best way to offer our postgraduates the clarity and the support they will need in the months ahead. We will be communicating about these efforts in the days ahead.

 

Staff

 

We recognise at this time of crisis the anxiety of staff on fixed term contracts (including post-doctoral researchers), staff in temporary employment, and casual workers. This is an especially worrying issue for staff whose contracts are about to expire. We have been looking into the terms under which the University may be able to extend such contracts. Colleagues have been busy drawing up a proposal to help us address this crucial issue, and that will be brought to Council next week.

 

In parallel to our own internal efforts to find the best ways forward, we are working in conjunction with other universities to influence the policies of various grant-awarding agencies. I hope that we will achieve much greater clarity over the next week.

 

Tackling COVID-19

 

I was glad to learn about the collaboration between the Cambridge University Hospital and University of Cambridge technologists who are now deploying 3D printers to design and produce facemasks for our frontline health workers.

 

People within the University and beyond have asked how they can contribute to Cambridge’s efforts to tackle the pandemic. One way to do that is through philanthropy. Please visit (or let others know about) this webpage, set up to direct philanthropic resources to Cambridge’s efforts to understand and contain the Coronavirus, and to support a hardship fund for students in need due to the current crisis.

 

With best wishes,

Stephen

 

Prof Stephen J Toope

Vice-Chancellor
