Dear students,

 

Work has continued over the weekend to ensure that our University is well equipped to ride out the long storm of the pandemic, and to be able to move towards resuming its full operations whenever it is once again possible to do so.

 

Closing down University buildings is never as simple as just switching off the lights. I am very grateful to our Estates Division, which has not only been providing essential maintenance to the handful of buildings that need to remain open, but has also been assessing the risks posed by the ones that need to be shut down – from water left stagnant in the plumbing, to electric wiring left unattended for potentially long periods of time.

 

Students

 

We are on track to share with all our students the information about modified methods of assessment for the Easter term. This information will be published tomorrow. A message will be sent from the Senior Pro-Vice-Chancellor to all students outlining the principles and policies relating to the modified methods of assessment. This will be followed by detailed information from Faculties and Departments about the method of assessment being adopted for particular courses. The Students FAQ section of our dedicated website will be updated as well. If any student has any questions about the method of assessment to be adopted they should please refer to the FAQs in the first instance.

 

I have to be clear that, in designing alternative methods of assessment in this crisis situation, many members of staff have acted expeditiously, flexibly and with sensitivity to the diversity of conditions. I am proud of the way hundreds of colleagues across the university have stepped up with ideas and offers to work differently. That said, I am under no illusion that the new assessment methods will be universally welcomed. There are inevitably some hard trade-offs in situations as extraordinary as those we face right now.

 

We received at the end of last week a letter to students from Michelle Donelan MP, the Minister of State for Universities. We have been asked to share it with all students. The letter can be found here.

 

I would once more like to draw the attention of international students who might still be in Cambridge to the latest UK government advice on foreign nationals, as noted in the Minister’s letter. Although the general rule from the UK government is to avoid all travel, there may be cases where students are receiving conflicting advice from their home government. Students who have not already done so, and who are in a position to travel, should of course seek their home governments’ support for repatriation as appropriate. Any students who receive this support should contact their College’s Senior Tutor.

 

Careers Service

 

Like other University services, the University of Cambridge Careers Service is now operating remotely. It is open to take any queries, and to discuss any concerns you may have during this challenging time. Skype or phone appointments can be booked by email or through the Careers Service Facebook page. 

 

Visitors to the Careers Service website can also tap into a wealth of resources, including advice on interviews, and practice video interviews. Information on future careers events will follow in the coming weeks, as will any updates on the news emerging from potential recruiters.

 

Staff

 

University of Cambridge employees will want to know, if they don’t already, about the University’s partnership with My Family Care. Through this partnership, the University offers employees on the University payroll access to emergency childcare, and to a network of adult and eldercare across the country. Of particular interest at this moment are the resources for families, including Coronavirus-related webinars about mental health and wellbeing, working from home and how best to share information about the pandemic with children.

 

Tackling COVID-19

 

Our University community has continued to rally in support of the nation-wide effort to tackle the pandemic.

 

Some of our academics have agreed to film short videos to be used as an educational resource by secondary school students whose preparations for GCSE exams were disrupted (there is a signup form here, for anyone wishing to participate).

 

Meanwhile, colleagues are working with the Cambridge University Hospital to ensure it is able to cope with a surge in patients. Though Addenbrooke’s is well prepared to manage a sharp rise in patient intake due to a single major event – a large pileup on the motorway, for instance – it is now having to prepare to manage a large increase over an extended period of time. The Institute for Manufacturing is helping the hospital think through the process that will allow it to cope with this increased demand and the implications for hospital capacity.

 

Even as official statements suggest that we may remain in this situation for longer than originally announced, I continue to be encouraged by our community’s demonstrations of generosity, inventiveness and creativity.

 

With best wishes,

Stephen

 

Prof Stephen J Toope

Vice-Chancellor
