Dear students,

 

Across the collegiate University, people continue to work hard to help us all adapt to the new strictures of our times while delivering teaching and research.

 

I am grateful for the positive feedback following yesterday’s announcement of the University’s plans for assessment in the Easter term. Specific issues affecting particular student cohorts are being resolved. Our aim is to offer a fair and reasonable solution to all students in these unprecedented circumstances.

 

Postgraduate research student stipends

 

At a meeting with funding bodies yesterday, it was agreed that students who currently receive a maintenance stipend from funds managed within the collegiate University will continue to receive them. These University-managed funds include the Cambridge Trust, Gates Cambridge, Departments and Colleges, and UKRI Doctoral Training Partnerships and Centres for Doctoral Training. Most students should have already received their funding for April-June 2020

 

We recognise that PhD students are at different stages in their research projects, and that a blanket approach to funding may not be the best way forward. We are in close contact with external funders and will provide further guidance about applying for extended funding when known. Some funders also provide financial support for other incidental costs. We ask students to contact their funding bodies for more details.

 

Tackling COVID-19

 

May Balls – those signature celebrations of the end of the academic year in Cambridge – have all been cancelled. But May Ball organisers across the Collegiate University have launched the Big May Ball Appeal – Coronavirus (The Big MAC). They are raising money from May Ball ticket refunds and from other direct contributions. The funds raised this way are being donated to the Centre for Existential Risk and to the Addenbrooke’s Charitable Trust. This is a commendable example of our students turning a setback into a tangible opportunity to contribute to society.

 

Keeping spirits high

 

With so many of us in lock-down, it is always encouraging to hear from those who are doing their best to keep our spirits high. Despite the loss of physical access to radio studios, the staff and students who manage CAM FM – the University’s student radio station – continue to broadcast on FM and online.

 

The station, run by students at the University of Cambridge and Anglia Ruskin University, has arranged the loan of its equipment so that its student presenters can produce regular live shows from home. Over the Easter holiday and through the Easter term it will be showcasing the work of Cambridge researchers, hoping to provide both support and a voice to the Cambridge student community.

 

Finally, anyone feeling a bit restless may wish to explore the weekly “Wellness Wanders” offered by the Cambridge University Botanic Garden. Today’s virtual walk is led by CUBG’s Head of Horticulture, and is a perfect antidote to enforced confinement.

 

Stay safe.

 

With best wishes,

Stephen

 

Prof Stephen J Toope

Vice-Chancellor 
