Dear students,

 

I am writing again to offer further updates on emerging issues across the University.

 

Assessment

 

The recent announcement of the University’s plans for alternative methods of assessment for Easter term and beyond has, with some exceptions, been positively received. Most students will, I am sure, understand that the Collegiate University is making every effort to adjust its complex and hugely varied schedule of assessment to ensure fairness while safeguarding students’ wellbeing.

 

The proposals for alternative assessment have been carefully considered by hundreds of colleagues across the collegiate University in close consultation with student representatives. The proposals have been approved by the relevant University bodies, and will form the basis of University policy in the months ahead. Where there is a lack of clarity, we will strive to offer further details. Where specific issues affecting particular cohorts have not been fully resolved, we will continue our work.

 

The diversity of our teaching and learning practices poses a real practical challenge when trying to design alternatives that work for all. I ask all students to be patient as we move ahead with this process. Many people across the University are working tirelessly, and in good faith, on your behalf. At a time of global emergency, any form of abuse directed at colleagues working hard to come up with practical and fair solutions (while facing personal challenges of their own) is unacceptable.

 

Staff

 

Like countless others, I find that the novelty of working from home is wearing off. I am on my own at the moment, and recognise that I may have greater flexibility than many others who are balancing work with caring for children or other dependants. Yet being alone at this time, far away from one’s loved ones as many of you are likely to be, creates its own stresses. None of us have been in this position before. It can certainly be overwhelming.

 

Weeks ago, many of you would have been planning your Easter leave. The idea of a holiday when we are all locked-in may now seem incongruous. Yet it is essential that we all take time out to unwind even during the period of government-mandated restrictions. Accordingly, I strongly encourage you to take as much leave during this time as you would otherwise have taken. Please discuss this with your line managers.

 

I wish to be clear that that this encouragement is not meant to cut across any proposals for the “furlough leave” scheme that the UK government is putting in place. If you are eligible for the scheme, you can expect to hear from the University or from your College, who will (once the government has offered further advice) confirm in greater detail how it applies to your role, and how it might affect any annual leave entitlement.

 

Sad news

 

Amid the flurry of statistics, headlines and government advice, the reality of the pandemic is hitting very close to home. I am deeply saddened to share news of the death of Professor Michael Wakelam, director of the Babraham Institute, in Cambridge. Our thoughts are with his family, his friends and his colleagues.

 

Tackling COVID-19

 

Yesterday I received a letter from Sir Patrick Vallance, the UK Government’s Chief Scientific Adviser. He wrote to thank Cambridge academics who have been providing expert advice to the Government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) and its subgroups regarding the response to the COVID-19 crisis.

 

“In our work to understand and track the spread of this new coronavirus,” Sir Patrick wrote, “we rely heavily on the expertise of our world-leading scientific community. The support we have received from many of our institutions and academic teams has made a decisive impact on the scientific advice we have been providing to Government through SAGE.”

 

To Sir Patrick’s words of sincere gratitude I wish to add my own acknowledgement, and to recognise publicly the vital work that many colleagues across the University are carrying out at this time.

 

The availability of widespread testing has been an issue lately. News was published today of the launch of a new rapid diagnostic test for COVID-19 that is capable of detecting the infection in under 90 minutes. The testing machines, developed by a University of Cambridge spinout company, provide a simple and accurate system for the diagnosis. They will be used by healthcare workers at point-of-care in order to rapidly diagnose patients. This will allow healthcare workers to more efficiently direct those who test positive to dedicated wards. The tests can also help identify healthcare workers who are infected, enabling those who test negative to return to the front line. The machines will be made available to a number of hospitals across the country thanks to a very generous philanthropic donation. I am hugely heartened by this news, which has been described as “a game changer” in managing the pandemic.

 

Meanwhile, using the expertise of another University spinout company, efforts continue to process donations of personal protective equipment needed in our hospitals. Follow this link to read more, and watch a short video, about the logistics behind the processing centre that is receiving, storing and sending on the equipment.

 

Like millions of people across the country, I will be cheering NHS workers tonight at 8:00 pm. Please do join in.

 

Yours,

 

Stephen

 

Professor Stephen J Toope

Vice-Chancellor
